MM-11399-Manage Admin Roles Using System Console (#4160)
mattermost/docs: source/deployment/admin-roles.rst

Additional System Admin Roles (E20)
====================================

> From v5.28, System Admins can use the command line to assign roles to members that permit admin access to designated areas of the System Console. This allows other members of your organization to perform certain administrative tasks without providing access to all system administrative capabilities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From v5.28, System Admins can use the command line to assign roles that permit members to have admin access to specified areas of the System Console. This allows members of your organization to perform certain administrative tasks without providing them with access to all system administrative capabilities.
```

> From v5.30, System Admins can use the System Console to manage admin roles and admin role privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From v5.30, System Admins can also use the System Console to manage additional System Admin roles and privileges.
```

- **System Manager:** The System Manager has read/write permissions for management areas of the System Console, such as user management and integrations (excluding permissions). This role has read only access to authentication, reporting, and license interfaces.
- **User Manager:** The User Manager role is able to read/write to all the user management areas (excluding permissions). The authentication interface is read only.
- **Read Only Admin:** This role is able to access all pages of the System Console but has no write access to any pages.

There are two ways to assign roles:

> 1. Using the System Console. Go to **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta)**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Using **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta)**.
```

> 2. Using the command line, using the `mmctl tool <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/mmctl-cli-tool.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Using the `mmctl tool <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/mmctl-cli-tool.html>`_.
```

> When a user is assigned a role, they have access the System Console. Each role has a set of default permissions. The items that they can view depend on the role they've been assigned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user is assigned a role, they have access the System Console. As each role has a different set of default permissions the items that they can view depend on the role they've been assigned.
```

> Each role has a set of default permissions. When a user is assigned a role, they are able to access the System Console. The items that they can view depend on the role they've been assigned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user is assigned a role, they have access the System Console. Each role has a set of default permissions. The items that they can view depend on the role they've been assigned.
```

Assigning Admin Roles
---------------------

System Admins can assign roles using the System Console or the mmctl tool. This can be done either locally or remotely.

  **In the System Console**

>   1. Go to **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta) > Assigned People**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Go to **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta) > Assigned People**. 
```

Assigning Admin Roles
---------------------

System Admins can assign roles using the System Console or the mmctl tool. This can be done either locally or remotely.

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta) > Assigned People**. 

The format of the mmctl command is:

``mmctl permissions role assign [role_name] [username...]``

**To grant the System Manager role to a single user called Bob Smith:**

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta)** and select the **System Manager** role.

> 2. Under **Assigned People**, click **Add People**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Under **Assigned People**, choose **Add People**.
```

> 3. Search for and select ``Bob Smith``, and then click **Add** to grant the System Manager role to that user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Search for and select ``Bob Smith`` and choose **Add** to grant the System Manager role to that user.
```

The format of the mmctl command is:

``mmctl permissions role assign system_manager bob-smith``

**To grant the User Manager role to two users, Bob Smith and Sue Clark:**

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta)** and select the **User Manager** role.

> 2. Under **Assigned People**, click **Add People**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Under **Assigned People**, choose **Add People**.
```

> 3. Search for and select **Bob Smith** and **Sue Clark** then choose **Add** to grant the User Manager role to those users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Search for and select **Bob Smith** and **Sue Clark** and choose **Add** to grant the User Manager role to those users.
```

> 3. Search for and select ``Bob Smith`` and ``Sue Clark``, and then click **Add** to grant the User Manager role to those users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Search for and select **Bob Smith** and **Sue Clark** then choose **Add** to grant the User Manager role to those users.
```

The format of the mmctl command is:

``mmctl permissions role assign system_user_manager bob-smith sue-clark``

**To grant the Read Only Admin role to two users, Bob Smith and Sue Clark:**

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta)** and select the **Viewer** role.

> 2. Under **Assigned People**, click **Add People**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Under **Assigned People**, select **Add People**.
```

> 3. Search for and select ``Bob Smith`` and ``Sue Clark``, and then click **Add** to grant the Viewer role to those users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Search for and select **Bob Smith** and **Sue Clark**, then select **Add** to grant the Viewer role to those users.
```

Reviewer: In this line, based on our style guide, Viewer should be *Viewer* as it's a role/user. I just realized that which is why it's not formatted in that way. Thoughts on changing the formatting in this doc? Examples of this formatting are in the installation guide (e.g., https://docs.mattermost.com/install/install-ubuntu-2004.html), so it is used in the docs albeit inconsistently.

The format of the mmctl command is:

``mmctl permissions role assign system_read_only_admin bob-smith sue-clark``

**To remove the System Manager role from a single user called Bob Smith:**

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta)** and select the **Viewer** role.

> 2. Under **Assigned People**, search for **Bob Smith**, and then select **Remove**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Under **Assigned People** search for **Bob Smith**, and select **Remove**.
```

> 2. Under **Assigned People**, search for ``Bob Smith``, and then select **Remove**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Under **Assigned People**, search for **Bob Smith**, and then select **Remove**.
```

Reviewer: Actually, based on the above, "Bob Smith" would be italicized too.

``mmctl permissions role unassign system_manager bob-smith``

Editing Privileges of Admin Roles (Advanced)
--------------------------------------------

Each of the admin roles have defined, default privileges as outlined above. 

System Admins can grant read and write access to other areas of the System Console, as well as remove read and write access (including default access), for each role. This is completed using the System Console or the mmctl tool, either locally or remotely.

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta)** and select the **System Manager**, **User Manager**, or **Viewer** role.

2. For each set of privileges, select the access level as **Can edit**, **Read only**, or **No access**.

**Note:** If you set privilege subsections to different access levels, the privilege access level displays as **Mixed Access**.

The format of the mmctl command is:

``mmctl permissions add [role_name] [permission...]``

**To grant write access to the Authentication section of the System Console for all users with the User Manager role:**

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta)** and select the **User Manager** role.

> 2. Under **Privileges > Authentication**, select **Can edit**, and then click **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Under **Privileges > Authentication**, select **Can edit**, and then **Save**.
```

The format of the mmctl command is:

``mmctl permissions add system_user_manager sysconsole_write_authentication``

**To grant read only access to the Authentication section of the System Console for all users with the User Manager role:**

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta)** and select the **User Manager** role.

> 2. Under **Privileges > Authentication**, select **Read only**, and then click **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Under **Privileges > Authentication**, select **Read only**, and then **Save**.
```

The format of the mmctl command is:

``mmctl permissions remove system_user_manager sysconsole_read_authentication``

**To remove write access to the Authentication section of the System Console for all users with the User Manager role:**

1. Go to **System Console > User Management > System Roles (Beta)** and select the **User Manager** role.

> 2. Under **Privileges > Authentication**, select **No access**, and then click **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Under **Privileges > Authentication** select **No access**, then choose **Save**.
```
